I think the ultimate aim in the world
and I might be ridiculous for thinking
this is to get pleasure from your
work somebody asks what is my view on
work life balance well I'm the worst

person in the world to ask like this
because I have the absolute worst
balance of
all I spend way too much time working
but you know what it's a weird question

because is that mean when I'm working
I'm not alive that isn't life you know
so if it go through my course of my day
I get up and I meditate you know that's
pretty good experience then I'm like

eating
breakfast I'm eating lunch I'm taking
care of my biological needs I'm
showering Etc I'm taking a nap then I'm
having dinner then I'm kind of watching

TV then I sleep and I exercise okay
that's that's life I guess but I am most
excited when I sit down and I'm working
on the sublime book that's 4 hours every
day because I can't do anymore four

hours is a good day for me anymore and I
and I just feel too tired but man I feel
so alive so as soon as I finish doing
these interviews that you're now
listening to I'm going to go in my

office and I'm going to start working on
this chapter that's killing me because
there is a lot of suffering and pain
going on but I feel very alive when I'm
doing it I mean I understand some people

work too hard they work too long they
don't know how to enjoy thems themselves
they don't have enough pleasure in their
life but I think the ultimate aim in the
world and I might be ridiculous for

thinking this is to get pleasure from
your work to feel that your work is
alive is life is wonderful it doesn't
mean that you don't spend time with your
kids or your partner your spouse or you

don't take vacations or you don't do
interesting things no those are all fun
that's all living it's a balance but why
there has to be this rigid separation
between work and life what you want is

this blurry thing where work is fun work
is an adventure work is a vacation for
me I know that's a privilege that a lot
of people don't have if you're flipping
burgers at a fast food chain I get it

but even if you're flipping burgers at a
fast food chain what I'd say is you're
learning things about yourself you're
learning things about the people that
you come in contact with the really

stupid nasty customers or the pleasant
customers that come in everything in
your work life can be a learning and
pleasurable experience if you look at it
that way so I'm the last person to ask

that way my work life balance is
horrible I'm a horrible example I work
too much it's because I love my work so
that's the only way I know how to answer
it



==========================================================
Generated by youtranscripts.com - Free YouTube Transcript Tool
