we have this emptiness we don't know
what to fill it with and because of that
emptiness we have to fill it with
something and if we don't know what to
fill it with we're just going to consume

consume consume consume consume as a way
to kind of deal with that empty feeling
to numb
[Music]
ourselves it's very difficult to be a

human being let's let's start at a very
basic level going back to our earliest
ancestry so unlike animals we are not
programmed now animals aren't completely
programmed that's a myth but they're

much more programmed than we are by
their instincts so a leopard doesn't
wake up in the morning and go what am I
going to do today am I going to hunt
this animal or that no I think it's kind

of Cloudy no they don't they don't have
that choice we do and that's what makes
us aimless that's what makes us wake up
in the morning go man what am I going to
do so what that means what that

translates into is the human being has
emptiness has a hole inside of ourselves
a hole that we need to fill in some way
because we have incredibly active Minds
The Brain if you break it down as I said

earlier we should be fetishizing it if
you study the brain in in a larger sense
it's absolutely
astounding the powers that it has the
amount of neural Pathways that connect

the complexity of it and the activeness
of it I meditate every morning and as I
try and still my mind whoa thoughts are
coming like this you can't believe how
active your mind is you're just not

aware of it and but we have this
emptiness we don't know what to fill it
with this mind is active we're not
programmed we don't know what to do and
because of that emptiness we have to

fill it with something we're restless
and if we don't know what to fill it
with we're just going to consume consume
consume consume consume as a way to kind
of deal with that empty feeling as you

say to numb ourselves we're going to eat
eat eat we're going to watch movies
we're going to binge watch we're going
to get addicted to porn because it's
filling that emptiness it's taking that

AC of mind and it's Dum it's numbing it
and it's like you know it seems
satisfying because we don't have to deal
with these other things so you have to
be aware that you have this emptiness

inside of you everybody does I have it
everyone does but my life the way I go
and I don't mean to be put the focus
continually on me is I wake up every
morning now cuz I've reached this

position and I want you to have this
privilege that I have I'm not saying
that I feel so great I want you to have
it I have this feeling I wake up in the
morning I know what I have to accomplish

I know what my goals are I know what I
have to do that particular day I know
what I have to do that particular week
these are the things that I can do to
fill that emptiness to program to give

myself a purpose to have that North Star
that you're talking about and yes within
those parameters I can waste some time
reading about the Lakers on on
lakersground.net you know it's website

that I lurk in or I can read articles
that have nothing to do with my life you
know I can waste time but I have a
general parameter I don't have that
gnawing emptiness that has to be

continually filled by consuming
consuming consuming so be aware that
your mind is so active that you have to
have something to fill it but it's your
choice whether you're just going to

consume mindless stuff or you're going
to actually use that Restless active
brain of yours and put it to some
incredible function how do they figure
out what incredible function to put it

to well that's the million-dollar
question and that's why I wrote my fifth
book Mastery so I have a chapter one in
Mastery called um discover your life's
task and it's not easy and I don't have

like a formula for it but I I kind of
lay out the process that lead you to it
if you're 22 or or
younger then it's it's pretty clear what
you have to do and it's not so difficult

if you're 29 30 gets more complicated if
you're 40 it's very difficult if you're
50 it's almost impossible so the younger
you go through this process the better
and what it entails is figuring out what

makes you unique in life and I don't
mean like total weirdness unique I don't
mean that you have to be like some
flamboyant rock star etc etc it can be
what makes you unique as an entrepreneur

as a business person what makes you
unique as a social individual as
somebody who likes to interact with
people what makes you unique in any
Endeavor right going into looking at

your childhood and being honest with
yourself and saying I'm mention this
thing now that I'm 22 but it's not
really me it's what my parents want me
to be interested in it's not really me

because it's what other peers think is
cool right now it's not really me
because of blah blah blah blah blah what
is really me okay so you got to peel
away these layers and you got to come at

so when you were born I liking to what a
seed is planted that seed is your
uniqueness because a your DNA has never
existed in the history of the universe
and never will exist again okay it's

imposs possible it's so unique B your
parents are not like any other parents
and they're going to raise you in a way
that's different from any other
parenting couple history C you're going

to have early experiences that are not
like anybody else that is unique that is
you that is what separates you from the
100 billion I I I narrowed it down how
many humans have left lived in the

because I had it in one of my chapters I
think it's 100 billion somewhere around
that 110 billion ever This Is What
Separates Me from Homo sapiens let's
draw that line who have ever lived

before okay and it's real it
exists and it's not like a single thing
it's not like oh I was meant to be a
fireman oh I was meant to be a
politician it's vaguer than that it has

to do with things that attract you
whether it's Sports and and your body
whether it's mathematics or music music
or whether it's words and literature or
whether it's social things or whether

it's building building a house carpentry
or building a business Etc what is it
that excites me what is it that I'm
drawn towards what I call your Primal
inclinations going through that process

and figuring out digging up that seat
and figuring out what it is is the most
should be the most exciting process in
your life because if you do it all the
stuff that we're talking about all the

bad circumstances of the world
everything you're facing you will
reverse that power you will discover
your superpower you will be motivated
you will find the energy right you will

know what to ignore it's not worth my
time to be watching this podcast or
reading this book it's not worth my time
to be wasting my energy doing this that
of the other I know what I want okay

when you're 21 or 22 man you can go if
you figure that out it doesn't have to
be so specific it just has to be this is
the general direction I want in my life
these are the people that I want to end

up being like even though I'm going to
be myself in that within those
parameters and the world will open up
for you and you'll have a little bit of
that radar that will guide you through

life if you're 30 years old it's
different in the 30 years old you go
through the thing of where did I go
wrong because you wouldn't be going
through this process unless you went

wrong if you were going right then you
don't need you can ignore everything
most likely you where did I go wrong why
am I in this job why am I unhappy
why I drinking why am I addicted to this

out the other thing my frustration my
unhappiness is speaking to me it's
telling me something it's telling me
that I took a wrong turn all right now
go back and figure out where you took

the wrong turn and what it was where you
how you can perhaps correct your path
