boredom is a signal to you and try and
go in that other direction it's telling
you that there's something that you need
to do to fill your time so that you
won't be so

bored so one of my readers out there
wanted to ask the question of what is
the importance of boredom how do you use
boredom and what is the role that
boredom plays in the creative process

boredom is actually a very important
quality you can go in one of two
directions in boredom when you're
feeling like there's emptiness inside of
you where you need to fill your time

with some activity you will either go
for something that'll give you kind of
immediate pleasure something that will
give you sort of instant gratification
or towards something productive like all

right in this time period where I feel
empty where I feel like there's nothing
going on in my brain I'm going to learn
something and I'm going to take the time
I'm going to read books about history

I'm going to read books self-help books
I'm going to read whatever it is and
reading them doesn't give me that
instant gratification that a video game
does or online porn or whatever but even

there might even be an element of
boredom in it but in the back of my mind
I know that I'm doing something
productive something interesting
something that will help me in the end

so boredom can either shoot you in the
direction of I've got to fill this time
with anything just to drown out my pain
that there's nothing happening or to
shoot you in the other direction of how

can I fill my time in a way that will
actually lead to something now 95% of
the time or 95% of the people will go
towards that instant gratification but
you are not going to be like that okay

I'm not saying it's bad to relieve your
boredom first of all boredom is
eminently human we all experience it I
experience boredom all the time I know
with the feeling okay so we all go

through it all right but you are going
to be different you are going to think
in these terms because you're asking me
that question and you're thinking about
it and you don't like the fact that

perhaps you're a bit lazy that you
perhaps use those moments now let me
make one thing clear it's okay to waste
time I am a great waster of time but
it's I waste time for a reason because

writing my books is a grind it's
probably what led to my stroke so much
focusing so much thinking it's not good
for you actually and I reach a point
where I can't take it anymore and then I

waste time and then I in the back of my
mind I'm going Robert you shouldn't be
wasting your time but it's my body's way
of saying Robert you need to relax you
need to put yourself on something so

trivial like sports like the Lakers
something like that which is usually
where I gravitate towards okay it's not
a sin to reach for something immediate
but I'm doing it for a productive reason

because I need to let go of all this
inner tension all right but boredom is a
signal to you and try and go in that
other direction it's telling you that
there's something that you need to do to

fill your time so that you won't be so
bored so let's say you're feeling bored
and you go I'm going to learn the piano
or I'm going to play chess okay in the
beginning it's kind of hard and it's

sort a little bit fun when you're
learning the rules Etc and you get
better and better and better at it and
the game is great and now whenever you
feel bored all right I can go play the

piano or I'm feeling a little bit bored
okay now I can play chess and when you
do those activities you're enriching
your brain you're doing something
productive in the creative process

boredom is a signal that something isn't
working in what you're doing all right
and you need to be excited so when
you're creating anything your level of
excitement will be inside what you

produce when I write a book and I'm
excited
the reader will feel my excitement when
I am bored by my own writing I know the
reader will be bored by my own writing

so I use boredom as a signal that I have
to find a way to excite myself in this
process and exciting myself will excite
the work and it will excite the reader
so boredom is a signal to you it's a

signal that you have time now it's empty
time and it's depressing you and it's
telling you you can go in that other
direction you can fill that time that
empty space with something that will end

up being much more productive and will
end up helping you cure your boredom in
the future so that's sort of how I use
it myself
