when you're excited by something a
subject you learn at a very high rate
when you're not excited it takes you
much longer to learn something so find
something that excites you

[Music]
inside how do you generate motivation I
guess in your daily life or in your work
we use language for things that are kind
of abstract but motivation if you want

to boil a down to something is just
basically your energy levels your
excitement levels That's What Makes You
motivated so let's just reduce it down
to what creates motivation in your life

in anything it's excitement it's the
desire that you have inside of you to do
something okay so if you have a job that
doesn't excite you and believe me I've
had plenty of those jobs in my rich

history before I wrote the 48 law so I
understand that feeling you have a job
that doesn't connect you that you don't
like it's very difficult to stay
motivated in that circumstance and I

understand so the thing that you have to
do in those situations is you have to
find something to be excited about you
have to find something that you can
learn about the situation and I talk

about this in other interviews in some
of my books even the most boring
mindless job there's going to be
something that you can learn about
yourself or about people if you're

working in a restaurant you have to
serve people you can learn about their
psychology you can learn about things
that you don't like about people you can
learn about yourself and things that you

don't like about yourself when you're
excited by something a subject you learn
it at a very high rate when you're not
excited it takes you much longer to
learn something so find something that

excites you inside that you love to read
it has nothing to do with your job right
could be ancient history it could be bad
Mitten it could be fashion I don't care
it excites you but has nothing to do

with your job spend your spare time
going into that and then when you're at
work you can start thinking about it and
you can bring books along with you if
you have the ability to do that I

remember I worked in Paris of okay
you're in Paris you go wow Robert how
can you be not motivated when you're
there well I had a really boring job I
was working at a telephone answering

service the very first one in Paris
there to translate messages nobody
called I was there for 8 hours a day and
had not nothing to do I decided that I
was going to read the seven volumes of

Marcel PR's remembrance of things
past I was going to fill it with reading
something that really excited me of
course no one was supervising me so I
had that ability find something that

excites you because that's what
motivates you the best thing to do is to
find a career that excites you in which
everything will motivate you you need to
learn more and you need to get better

and better and better because you love
it so love and excitement and energy are
all parts of motivation and you're not
going to be motivated if you don't like
what you're doing so you have to find

something in that job or whatever it is
that does genuinely excite you and that
will motivate
you
