you have to be able to like to be alone
is a very important skill in life
because you're inevitably going to be
facing such
moments so one of the readers or

listeners out there want to know about
how to deal with loneliness and I think
it's a very human thing we've all dealt
with it I know I dealt with it
particularly when I was younger a lot

when I was in my 20s Etc I remember once
I was in Rome 20 years ago or so I was
entering a restaurant to eat and I was
by myself in a crowded restaurant and
the waiter asked me if I was alone and I

said yes kind of shamefully yeah yeah
I'm alone he said in
Italian and that expression has stuck
with me for many many years it was
better to be alone than to be

accompanied with someone bad or to have
bad company so the idea is that you have
to kind of sometimes like to be with
yourself and sometimes being with other
people can be a drag can be painful

there can be people that can conflict a
lot of pain on you and so sometimes the
Grass Is Always Greener and I would
often think about not to say that it
doesn't hurt to be alone because we're a

social animal but maybe it's better that
I don't have to be around all of these
annoying people and I can fill my time
with other things so reading books
watching movies Etc I'm not alone

because I'm with other people I'm with
other spirits of course not saying this
is the perfect answer but you have to be
able to like to be alone is a very
important skill in life because you're

inevitably going to be facing such
moments and so you have to be able to
like your own thoughts to be interested
in your own ideas to be reading books to
be doing things that excite you and if

you're excited in your spirit then
you're not really alone when I'm reading
a great book I don't feel feel so alone
yes I would like to share it with
somebody else but these are ways to kind

of alleviate that the other thing is is
to understand that you think that you're
the only person like that everybody goes
through that feeling we're living in a
culture now where loneliness is like an

epidemic you know and the books are
being written about it you know people
are bowling by themselves there whole
book written about that you know it's a
culture where we're not social as we

used to be we're so much more virtual so
you're not alone in that so you're not
alone in your lonely it's very human
other people are experiencing that and
be aware of it how do you overcome it

you have to become more social you have
to put yourself out in this world and
not be so virtual loneliness and being
alone has a momentum to it and I know it
I've experienced it myself cuz being a

writer you're alone believe me I'm alone
a lot when you're alone a lot you get
more and more afraid you get more and
more timid encountering people becomes
difficult painful like it's like a skill

that you you lost it's a feel that
you've lost and it's harder to get back
and you don't think of that that way you
think of uh I don't want to go to that
party you've got to force yourself in

the opposite dire you've got to build
that opposite momentum because the more
you're out in the world you're more that
you're social the more that you're
meeting people the more that you'll have

chances for finding somebody that has
similar interests to you so if online
you're able to find people with similar
interests to you and share that that's
great but find a way to make it not so

virtual meet people go to these places
where there are people who are
like-minded to you force yourself to
become more social so there'll be more
opportunities to meet other people but

the most important thing of all is to be
okay with being alone sometimes with
actually finding it oddly enough kind of
pleasurable to not have all those
annoying noises those annoying people

all that narcissism out there all that
crap that we have to deal with yeah I
like being alone sometimes I like just
sitting in the bathtub and reading a
book I like just watching a movie Etc by

myself if you can do that if you can
find pleasure in being alone then
loneliness loses a lot of its staining
and then the other thing is to force
yourself to develop that social muscle that we all have

