I think we're going through a very
chaotic moment in which things are
fracturing and splitting and dividing up
in a way that is happened before in
history I don't think it's ever quite

happened so
quickly this present moment and how will
be judged in history and it's very
curious that you ask that because in a

chapter I'm just writing now in my
Sublime book about our relationship to
history in the past I go through that
and I try and explain to the reader that
what you think about right now about the

year
2024 and how people will see it in
201124 will be very different and how
people see it in 2224 will be even more
different I tell you look back at 100

years ago and how you see the world of
1924 you see the kind of funny Fashions
the music the women dancing wildly that
you know all these other things it's not
how people experienced it back then so

his history has a very strange way of
altering one's perspective so as someone
who spends too much of his time reading
history I think about this a lot and I
think we're going through a very chaotic

moment in which things are fracturing
and splitting and dividing up in a way
that has happened before in history and
I've seen these Cycles before I don't
think it's ever quite happen so quickly

in such an accelerated Pace a lot of it
having to do with technology what I mean
is used to be that there were these kind
of grand myths that would unite people
who lived in a particular moment what is

called the Zeitgeist those grand myths
could be America American exceptionalism
it could be about our democracy it could
be about our great history if we're
talking about America or it could be if

you're a Christian you blah blah blah
blah blah these were things that United
a group that you believed in that kind
of anchored you in the sort of reality
and it made you follow certain beliefs

Bel and Obey or accept certain things
all of that is splitting apart every
form of authority now is under question
people are going into their little niche
Corners their little smaller beliefs and

they're joining these little groups Etc
these little group of skuls grouplets
Etc it's all fracturing the great myths
that United this country are dissolving
before our very eyes and I talk about it

because I think about if I were to
create a politician now who could
somehow overcome all of that like John F
Kennedy did when he won his election or
FDR or Abraham Lincoln you would have to

create a new myth for America to unite
us all and so this dissolving nature in
which we all have our little small
little pockets of beliefs and we don't
like Authority we're very cynical about

it I think people will look back on that
and go wow that was really powerful
right they look back on the pandemic and
the effect of it the other thing I think
that marks our time is very high levels

of anxiety and fear and that in
particular is cyclical because I can
recognize in history periods very much
like that that stamp people's very
deeply in their psyche like the 1930s

and the depression Etc very high levels
of fear and anxiety particularly among
young people and rightly so because
they've gone through a lot of things
that have destabilized them kind of

shaken up their faith in institutions
Etc so very high levels of an anxiety
and fear and cynicism okay now this has
got to change because we're human beings
and we don't like this we don't like

living with all this doubt this fear we
want to believe in something we want to
be excited we want to feel like there's
a future ahead of us so a generation
will be emerging I don't know when I

think it may be the youngest generation
now I I don't know because I I don't
have children that age I don't have any
children but are emerging now where
they're going to find this state of

affairs so depressing they're going to
react against it like people in the past
have reacted against it and they're
going to create new movements new myth
new things for people to join together

on and believe in new things that are
going to excite them that are overcome
all this fear and anxiety that we have
that said I am not a Seer I am not
Nostradamus I could be 100% wrong

because in a 100 years so many other
things could have happened were compared
to now people will be even more fearful
and more cynical and more divided and
they'll look back on us and they'll go

wow that was a great time I don't know
but you asked me the question so I did
the best that I
could


==========================================================
Generated by youtranscripts.com - Free YouTube Transcript Tool
