we're going to lose what it means to be
a human being we're going to lose our
spirit we're going to lose our soul i
don't want to live in that kind of world
i'm more amazed at an incredible work of

art that I can't even imagine how it was
created by some fantastic individual
than I am by anything that technology
has created to be honest with
[Music]

you what do I think about AI and how
will it impact creative work well let me
confess something to you all i am not a
fan of AI i know I'm going to get a lot
of criticism for it i know people are

going to say "Robert you're a typical
boomer even though I'm not really a
boomer i'm kind of on the cusp of it."
Or you know you're just an old blah blah
blah or whatever you just don't get it i

come from a different perspective on
these things basically these large
language models but you just feed all
those reams of information for them it's
basically just using what other people

have created and I can see the benefit
sometimes when I read about how this
will lead to some incredible discoveries
in health in the sciences in medicine
i'm not going to poo poo that that would

be great because the computing power is
so immense that problems that have
bedeled us for centuries will be solved
in a matter of days or weeks that's
that's very interesting to me and I

don't you know deny that but damn it you
have to look at it from the other side
we are human beings we are not machines
we are not algorithms our minds don't
work like that and we evolved 50 100,000

years ago as these creatures these
animals that are wired a particular way
we have very powerful emotions that
govern who we are we want things we're
locked in the moment just like any

animal is we can't see even though we're
aware of the future we just simply
respond to things that are immediately
before us we have this kind of emotional
immaturity that we have carried

throughout the centuries and here we
arrive at
2025 and we have these immensely
powerful tools beginning with the
internet and and now you know

culminating in AI i'm sure there's going
to be something else in the future the
singularity or whatever you want to call
it coming up ahead we have these
immensely powerful instruments yet we

remain these apes with very adaptive
flaws in our chemistry and how our
brains are wired we are not built to
handle these immensely powerful things
that we have created we don't see the

consequences we are not emotionally
mature so just as there will be these
amazing inventions that we can all
foresee like in science fiction that
will solve all the problems they'll

solve climate change and global warming
and cancer and etc there will be all of
these horrifying consequences that
people who are truly evil who truly
don't care about others who are truly

out for their own interests criminals
criminal-minded people are going to find
AI to be the most brilliant tool to
control and manipulate the masses of
people who are we are essentially weak

and we are very easily manipulated so on
the good side wow all these amazing
things people don't understand the
incredible negative power and
consequences that could come from tools

like this falling into the hands of
people who don't have the best interest
and heart of humanity it could end up
being the destruction of the world given
you know wow I could build a nuclear

bomb in 5 days and I'm part of this
little tiny cult i'm just going to blow
up the world these things are very very
possible but the other aspect of it that
really really annoys me is that

creativity is not a matter of algorithms
so people will show me these like
paintings and these images that were
done from AI look how funny and where
they go i look at them and they've got

no soul behind them they're clearly like
manipulation of of cut and pasted of
images that aren't like anything in the
real world there's no human spirit
behind it it's clearly something from a

machine i read poetry that people have
written or this is how Robert Green
would write the 48 laws of power it
mimics my language but there's no soul
behind it there's no spirit behind it

it's empty it feels empty it reads empty
it looks empty we are losing our
humanity we're losing our sense of what
it means to be a human being to make
things with our hands to touch things to

create things to be creative you have to
go through a process you have to try
this that and the other a B and C decide
that A and B don't work c you try C it
doesn't work you on and on and on you go

through this process the process that I
tried to enumerate in mastery in chapter
5 on the creative process itself it
requires patience it requires skills it
requires learning something very deeply

so that you have a feel for it right it
you've internalized it played the piano
so many times that it's at your
fingertips right it's inside of you it's
a beautiful beautiful process to master

some kind of skill and to be truly truly
creative it's not a matter of just
information being fed into a machine and
then spit out it's not a matter of large
language models of swallowing all of

these images and swallowing all of these
books that have written that's not being
creative that's that's a machine it's
not a good tool for being creative and
if people start relying on that to write

their books to make their movies to
write their music which is happening
we're going to lose what it means to be
a human being we're going to lose our
spirit we're going to lose our soul i

don't want to live in that kind of world
i'm more amazed at an incredible work of
art that I can't even imagine how it was
created by some fantastic individual
than I am by anything that technology

has created to be honest with you
because that is what excites me is the
human powers behind things you can call
me a fossil which I probably am but I
think a point will be reached in 50 60

years where people might start realizing
some of this and might have a nostalgia
for going back to a time in history when
it wasn't this incredible infatuation
with technology that we have right now

and that the infatuation should be with
the human mind and the human brain
because as I've said many times on
podcasts ad nauseium the human brain is
by far the most amazing organ instrument

ever created in the history of the
universe its complexity is unbelievable
the amount of connections that we can
have in our brain are astronomical
that's what we should be so enamored

with that's what we should be
emphasizing in our schools and for
children etc if AI could be a tool just
a tool that we can use to help us become
more creative I can maybe see the virtue

in that but what it will end up
happening is it will end up taking us
over they'll end up using us instead of
us using them which is what has happened
with the internet so I'm going to end my

rant on that point
