Transcript Generated for Free by youtranscripts.com
==========================================================

Title: The Most Critical Social Skill
=====================================

Generated on: 6/14/2025, 3:20:56 PM

people can say anything they want to
with words so we don't ever really say
exactly what we feel but our body
language does not lie it's very
difficult to lie with your body language

even the finest actors in the world find
it very difficult to lie with their
voice cuz the voice reveals people's
feelings you want to be observant
[Music]

the most important skill that you can
have in in the work world in the
business world and in life is knowing
how to observe people and not be so
wrapped up in yourself and be

outerdirected so when you're in a
situation like you've entered a job for
the first time your tendency is to be
all insecure and think did I say the
wrong thing Am I doing am I dressing

correctly Am I fitting in And you're not
observing you're thinking about yourself
right And the whole game is to be
observing it's like you're observing the
the world the different games that are

going on what people are doing what
they're like what their tastes are like
what the boss is like there are all
these levels of power going on you want
to get outside of yourself and simply

observe right And not be thinking about
yourself as much and if you become a
really good observer of people which is
something that I developed over all of
these different jobs that I had I wasn't

necessarily the best uh person figuring
out the game but I was very observant
about people and their nature and their
flaws and such if you become an astute
observer of the people around you you

will have this the game will be much
easier to to manage right You will know
this is a person who is insecure i
cannot offend them i cannot say the
right the wrong thing to them this is a

person who's strong and secure i want to
be with them i want them to mentor me
that they can you know you want to be
able to take criticism from other people
in other words be less insecure and be

more kind of outer motivated and paying
attention to the people around you and
so it sounds like sort of half the
battle is sort of naming what other
people are so saying like h this this

happened robert did this thing which
tells me he cares about how he's
perceived perception and relevance is
important to Robert so I'm going to name
a person like that right and so often

when you're young you're just thinking I
I I me me me me me me me me me me me me
me me me me me me me me me me me me me
me me me me me me me me me me me me me
me me me me you don't even know to name

another right interesting well the thing
also that you want to u understand is
everything is a sign so when you're
observing for another thing is enjoy
this aspect of it because it's actually

a lot of fun it's like watching a movie
and observing people and understanding
them but everything people do is a sign
so if they're showing up late at
meetings or they're not returning your

phone calls it's not some innocent event
it means something it's coming from some
place within them they're telling you
something about themselves indirectly if
their desk is a mess right they can't

organize their desk it's a sign of
something else going on inside them
right If they if they're not returning
your phone calls on and on and on every
little thing that people do i sometimes

when I read an email I can sense that
there's a little bit of anger as an
undertone you can sense people's tone
not just in what they say but in how
they write something right There's a

lack there's not this usual kind of
polite tone there's a little bit of a
sharpness there's a word or two that
indicates that they're upset they're
angry every little thing that people do

is a sign you're not paranoid because
it's actually a lot of fun and you're
decoding what's going on because people
wear
masks they smile and they say "I love

your ideas Cody you're brilliant you're
wonderful." But inside they're thinking
something else and you have to be able
to pick up all of these signs yeah it
seems like a lot of us have lost a lot

of that gut intuition like we don't
we're told to not trust your first
instinct yeah you know we're told to not
cross the street when we feel a certain
way because that could be rude to

somebody else we're sort of continuously
being told to mask this feeling we get
in our gut how do you reopen that again
Like if you're sitting in a room with a
bunch of people in the workplace and

you're trying to figure out how to play
this game what is the mental game Robert
plays to sort of pick up these
undercurrents that somebody might not be
able to see Well um I wrote a book

called the laws of human nature sort of
my last book and I have a very long
chapter in there about non-verbal
communication and it's extremely
important skill to

develop and what that means is people um
can say anything they want to with words
in fact they generally do they never
really exactly say what's on their mind
that's how it is in the social world cuz

if you said what was exactly on your
mind you would be offending a lot of
people right So we don't ever really say
exactly what we feel but our body
language does not lie it's very

difficult to lie with your body language
even the finest actors in the world find
it very difficult to lie with their
voice because the voice reveals people's
feelings right So you want to be

observant we're very good at picking
these kind of cues up so you may not
realize it but you sense that something
is wrong about this person that you've
just met this is something that in the I

talk a lot about in the art of seduction
and I've dealt with with women who've
written me back they had a gut feeling
that this man that they met was wrong
there was something bad about him they

got a bad feeling from it but what
happens is you don't trust that feeling
and then because you're not as you say
in our culture it's not something that
we value and then we go on we have a

relationship and then we find the hard
way out that our original gut instinct
was the correct one so you want to trust
these feelings they're very valuable we
are animals we think we're all so

intellectual we've got our our frontal
cortex that governs everything but
inside we operate on emotions on
instincts on feelings on sensations it's
a nonverbal form of communication it

comes out in people's gestures and how
they move how they stand right You're
they're at a party you're talking to
them but their feet are pointing in a
different direction they're not so

interested in you their eyes reveal if
they're really listening to you or not a
real smile lights up the whole face a
fake smile is all kind of tight and
that's wonderful i really like Right on

and on and on it's this insane language
you can understand exactly what people
are thinking but you have to to do this
to be able to reach this kind of level
of understanding you have to shut off

your own mind you have to shut off all
your internal chatter and you have to
observe and you have to see you know
exactly what try and read and detect
what that particular sign means and you

won't believe how often you are very
accurate with it you can detect people's
resentment people's envy and I I as I
said I wrote a whole chapter about signs
that you can look at at tomorrow and

learn about this language it's just that
you're not paying attention and you
don't value this form because we're so
verbal we think everything has to do
with words but doesn't



==========================================================
Generated by youtranscripts.com - Free YouTube Transcript Tool
