Transcript Generated for Free by youtranscripts.com
==========================================================

Title: Your Intensity of Focus Will Reward You
==============================================

Generated on: 6/14/2025, 3:22:20 PM

you know when you focus on something the
world just kind of opens up but you have
to be focusing on the right thing if you
were meant to be a writer and then you
decide because you want money to go into

law school and then you focus very
deeply on law school what will happen is
for a year or two you'll be able to to
skid by but then you'll the wheels will
start going slower and slower because

you're not interested in it you're not
connected to it you get bored and your
focus will start falling to pieces but
if it's something you love you can focus
on that for 7 8 10 12 years and never

get
bored something that I think many many a
person struggle with which is in part
this idea of focusing on the thing in
front of you versus getting too

distracted with other opportunities and
I wanted to talk to you about this idea
of focus sure and how important you
think it is for mastery yeah i meet so
many young people who will say to me "Oh

I'm doing this little crypto thing here
and I've got this hair business here and
I've got this other thing here." What
would you say to those people that are
trying to become a master in this world

as it relates to focus
it's funny because I'm I'm I'm helping a
the son of an old friend of mine who's
who's who's got that problem and he's
incredibly successful i hope he's not

listening to this he's 20 years old he's
very wealthy he's done amazing things
but he's one of those people who spread
himself out to all these different
things he's and I can't find a through

line what connects them all except
making money and having connections and
stuff and it's very alluring in this
world particularly you know where
there's so many possibilities where you

can get on the internet you can learn
this that the other people are doing
these things you can get into crypto you
know you can you know start your own
business here you can get into into the

health and fitness world you can and
then later on try to figure out how to
connect them all but life doesn't work
like that that's not how the brain
functions not what we were meant for

because it doesn't start from you the
whole thing has to start from you it
can't start from the world it can't
start from what other people are doing
it can't start from what's sexy it has

to come from within if it doesn't come
from within then you're going to be
floundering for years and years and
years and so what I've done with this
young person whose name I won't mention

but I love dearly is what is it that
really is in your heart what is it that
you really really love how can we
connect this crypto with this media
business that you're starting with this

sports world that you're starting with
this fitness thing what what connects
them all you know and to me I I was
thinking I was getting the sense we
haven't solved it yet but he's kind of

excited by celebrities and by that world
and that's fine i think there's that's
there's nothing wrong with that so I'd
say well maybe what connects all this is
the film

business right because the film business
is pretty wide ranging to be a producer
to raise money you're dealing with all
kinds of different people you're
networking you're meeting starlets you

know it's a glamorous life but it's
focused okay so you know when you focus
on
something the world just kind of opens
up but you have to be focusing on the

right thing so if you were meant to be a
writer and then you decide because you
want money to go into law school and
then you focus very deeply on law school
what will happen is for a year or two

you'll be able to to skid by but then
you'll the wheels will start going
slower and slower because you're not
interested in it you're not connected to
it you get bored and your focus will

start falling to pieces but if it's
something you love you can focus on that
for 7 8 10 12 years and never get bored
from observing a certain family member
of mine do a very similar thing part of

it as well is that when she would start
one pursuit starting ex
business it would get hard as it always
does and when you look over at the
person across the road they seem to be

having a much easier life with their
thing or with their crypto or with their
whatever and they tell you the story of
how much money they've made and how easy
it was whatever so you get tempted into

believing that the grass is greener you
pursue that so now you're doing two
things now your first thing starts to
suffer and I think especially in the
early season of life when you don't have

Elon Musk resources much of the game is
focusing enough on one thing to build
those resources so that you have the
chance of being able to do more than one
thing or spreading your bets a bit more

but in that first season when you're in
resource accumulation phase I think my
early investors in my company I remember
one day emailing my first investor who's
a very successful man and saying "I've

got an idea." And it was an idea other
than the one he had invested in and I
remember the email he I was 18 years old
and he hit me so hard on that email he
was like "If you don't focus on one

thing you will never ever You were the
one that was interested in this
other one." Yeah so he my investor was a
very successful man and I emailed him
this other idea which I thought was

amazing yeah yeah yeah and he sent me
this email back which was like being hit
by a whip and he was like if you don't
focus on one thing now you will never be
successful cuz also you rob yourself as

you said of the chance of accumulating
deep skills yeah yes it is um yeah I
remember u this is something that wise
people know and if you're young if you
have like a mentor like you did who

could tell you the truth the ropes as
they are it will help save you years of
misery i remember when we were at
American Apparel it was the year 2007
the company was just about to go public

i was about to be put on the board of
directors and this man came to me who
was like your investor and he said
"Robert just make sure that Dove doesn't
mindlessly expand make the brand focused

have it focused on one thing and then he
will be successful." At the time I
thought that was interesting but I
didn't really have the guts to like
explain that to Dove but there are

people out there who understand the
truth of this but the other thing about
envy like you say you see your other
friend doing crypto and they're having
so much fun and making so much money

tell you it's they're not
having as much fun as you think right
people create a front on Instagram or or
Tik Tok or wherever where life seems so
glorious but they're never having as

much fun as you might imagine you know
in in my book Laws of Human Nature I
talk about Aristotle Onasses who in the
60s was the wealthiest man in the world
he was married to John F kennedy's widow

Jacqueline Kennedy jacqueline
Onasses who could who could be happier
than that he had yachts etc he was the
most unhappiest miserable person in the
world as Jacqueline Kennedy explained in

in her autobiography he was such a
mean-spirited unhappy person yet
everybody thought envied him because he
had this beautiful wife and all that
money the people you envy are not doing

nearly as well as you think so don't let
that influence your decisions in life i
um I've never forgotten a certain Johnny
IV clip that I watched many many years
ago i think it was must have been 5

years ago now where he talks about
working with Steve Jobs and this is what
he says in the clip and I've never
forgotten it never forgotten it
this sounds really simplistic but it

still shocks me how few people actually
practice this um and it's a struggle to
practice but is is this issue of focus
um Steve was the most remarkably focused
person I've ever met in my life and

um and the thing with focus is it's not
sort of like this thing you aspire to or
you you decide on Monday you know what
i'm going to be
focused it is a every minute a why are

we talking about this this is what we're
working on you can achieve so much when
you truly focus and one of the things
that Steve would say um because I think
he was concerned that I wasn't um he

would say um how many things have you
said no to and I would honestly I would
have these sacrificial things because I
I mean I'm wanted to be very honest
about it and so I say "Oh I said no to

this and no to that." And
um he but he he knew that I wasn't
vaguely interested in doing those things
anyway um so there was no real sacrifice
what what focus means is saying no to

something that you with every bone in
your body you think is a phenomenal
idea and you wake up thinking about it
but you say no to it because you're
focusing on something else yeah amen

that's you know that's the church of
focus I agree with completely i
mean I hate using my own examples
because I'm I'm a ra a you know I'm a
rare bird but um you know I I have this

book that I'm writing okay and it's on a
very specific
subject and I get distractions all the
time people want you know I can do this
speaking engagement in India where I've

never been before or Egypt you know kind
of thing or get involved in this
television
project and I'm actually never really
seduced by it because I just love

writing but where it really comes down
to is I'm writing this book and I and
I'm it's been going really not well it's
because I'm not focused on the actual
thing I'm trying to say

so you can bring that level of focus
down to the finest finest point of your
business or your writing or whatever
what is it you're trying to say what is
it you're trying to accomplish what is

your brand really about get into the
nitty-gritty get into the little fine
grains of sand and know what that is so
every time I'm writing my chapter and I
start writing about something that's not

directly relevant to what it's about and
what the reader is going to be
interested in I'm making a mistake and I
make the mistake for several weeks and
then I realize it and I pull back so

that level of focus has to have a lot of
energy behind it because you're so in
love with what you're doing that when
you deviate from it this little radar
inside of your brain goes you're you're

off you're off you got to get back to it
right
and it's painful but when you do get
back to it and when do things do click
it's incredibly pleasurable so the focus

for young people that seems so painful
god damn it everyone else is having so
much fun and I'm having to learn this
just keep telling yourself that you're
doing something that your brain is going

to reward you with several years down
the line so that friend of yours that
seems to be having so much fun in 3
years they're going to be sliding down
the ladder working at some crap job

whereas you're going to be rising up so
just keep your mind on the on the on the
larger issue there and know that working
with what your brain is works well with
will pay incredible rewards down the

line


==========================================================
Generated by youtranscripts.com - Free YouTube Transcript Tool
