i ended up realizing I hate working for
other people i hate their politicking i
hate their egos i hate all the
they throw at you i don't want to work
for other people and even in Hollywood

when I worked in Hollywood and as I was
trying to be a screenwriter which I
failed at you know you write a
screenplay and then 40 other people come
in they change everything that you wrote

no way man i want to work for myself i
want to be the master of my own domain
and finally I have that boy was it tough
but I learned that I can't stand working
for other

people i was planning to write another
book actually before I'm writing the
book that I am writing so it's going to
be called the power of negative thinking
and um the idea is a lot of the what

works in life is what you don't do with
the things you don't decide to take the
people you don't have a relationship the
bad bosses that you decide not to work
with right the career paths that will

lead nothing lead nowhere so the ability
to be able to say no to say this is what
I hate this is what I don't want in life
is very very very powerful you know and
nowadays you know all of us are facing

this incredible global disease which is
way too much information inundating us
we're just it i don't think there's ever
been a situation like that in the
history of mankind and it doesn't play

well with our psychology and power in
the world today comes from knowing what
to ignore what to say no to what not to
let into your brain so that you can have
space in that brain of yours that's that

very special gray matter that's stuck in
your head you have space in it for
actual things that are really important
so the ability to say I don't need to
know this i don't need to read that

website i don't need to know about this
celebrity's personal you know affairs
etc etc is a critical skill i want to
come back to that because something else
you said really struck me is the power

of knowing what you really don't want
what makes you miserable what's not your
sort of thing is really important and I
remember when I was at American Apparel
every year I would go and there was this

conference in Los in New York every year
called ad week and all the sort of ad
buyers and ad sellers would come and
they always had these cool speakers and
I remember I went the first year and I

was just excited to be somewhere and
then the second year I was there and I I
remember looking around and seeing that
I was the youngest person there which I
thought was cool and then I looked

around and I was the only one not
wearing a suit and uh these are all
don't know I'm wearing a suit this I've
never seen you wear this is going to
what I'm I'm saying at your wedding do

you wor I definitely wore a suit at my
the
uh probably the only time I've worn one
since but yeah um I I looked around and
everyone was in a suit and I thought it

it struck me you know if I keep coming
every year one day I'm going to be in a
suit and I thought I just didn't want to
be like these people i mean no no
offense to them but that's just the

opposite of what I wanted in my life and
and so I said I got to cop not just I
have to stop coming i have to leave this
job i like I I can only fool myself for
so long that these things that I'm doing

are preparing and setting me up for then
the moment where you make the leap and
so knowing what you don't want what
tasting it a little bit getting close
but then you you have to you ultimately

have to to make the sort of interaction
with boldness right you have to you have
to get you have to go okay I'm out i'm
not going to do it and and sometimes
having that sort of burning aversion to

something can help put you on the path
to the thing you're meant to do burning
start the burning aversion like I hate
this this the maybe I didn't exactly
knew what I wanted but I knew what I

didn't want and that was a the power of
elimination inherently is concentrating
your forces in one direction yeah I'm
really glad you didn't end up worried
that that's great um I know I know for

me uh I had 50 different jobs before I
wrote the 48 loss of power i had some of
the worst jobs you could possibly
imagine and this all came this was all
sort of the soil in which the 48 laws of

power kind of grew but I ended up
realizing I hate working for other
people i hate their politic i hate their
egos i hate all the they throw
at you i don't want to work for other

people and even in Hollywood when I
worked for in Hollywood and as I was
trying to be a screenwriter which I
failed at
um you know you write a screenplay and

then 40 other people come in they change
everything that you wrote no way man i
want to work for myself i want to be the
master of my own domain and finally I
have that but it boy was it tough but I

learned that I can't stand working for
other people
yeah and that that you only have one
life and are you gonna spend it doing
something that you don't like that isn't

that task because it pays well because
your parents think it's better you know
because other there's
that that idea from Renee Gerard the
philosopher who basically says because

we don't know what we want we want what
other people want and mimemetic desire
yeah the ability like mimemetic desire
is an inherently human tendency but I
think one of the beginnings of strategy

and the beginning of taking ownership of
your own life is to see when you're
being mimedic and to to stop to be truly
an independent thinker to know yourself
as opposed to just knowing what people

are supposed to do people are supposed
to go to college you're supposed to get
a well-paying job you're supposed to
move to New York or Los Angeles or one
of these and you have to know hey is

that making me happy is that what my
talents are suited for is this like I've
been saying look each and every person
is inherently unique you have a strand
of DNA that's never existed before will

never exist again yes yeah and and and
also your experiences who your parents
were the moment you none of that's ever
happened before and so we have this
incredible gift that we were given at

birth and the thing that most of us do
with that gift is we try to make
ourselves like other people we throw
that gift away and and the best thing to
do is you have a monopoly over you as a

person don't go into more competitive
waters seize that monopoly and make the
most of what you have yeah very well put
um yeah I don't want to I didn't want to
imply that it's it's some sort of sin to

work for other people because a lot of
people don't have that choice so don't
get be warm on app store or maybe they
enjoy that some people some people enjoy
working on someone else's vision or

there's many who has their own
completely legitimate it just wasn't for
me personally but um some people like
wearing suits some people like wearing
suits

yeah but um you know it's really hard in
the world today to do this i compare
what Ryan's talking about to this little
voice in your head so when you were
three or four years old if you can think

back that far you had this little voice
in your head that was saying I love this
and it was very basic and primitive you
could probably relate to them with your
own children it's not like I want to be

you know uh present well you would be I
want to be president but you know I want
to write this kind of book it was
something very concrete and physical i
like these colors i like this particular

smell or these sort of things i like
being around people for me it was words
and just word the sensual aspect of a
word just fascinated me right um you
hear this voice in your head saying this

is what I love this is what's great and
then you get you're seven years old and
suddenly your teachers are telling you
this is what's important in life and
then your friends are telling this is

what's cool what's not cool you get into
adolescence slowly but surely that voice
it's really harder and harder and harder
to hear because it's drowned out by all
the other voices and that's been the the

story throughout history but now you
have to hear billions of voices all
around the globe on social media saying
what's cool what's interesting what's
important and that voice it disappears

and I get a lot of people who come to me
they read mastery and they go I I really
want that life's task i have no idea and
we all we have to go through this kind
of archaeological dig into their

earliest years until we find it and
uncover it again but that's sort of the
tragedy of our times that that it's hard
to figure out who you are as a
individual person with all this other

stuff going on


==========================================================
Generated by youtranscripts.com - Free YouTube Transcript Tool
