a lot of people are turned off by
learning and if you don't find learning
one of the most exciting things in the
world then the whole game everything
else will fall apart but it has to be

something that excites
[Music]
you i've said to many people that live
in a world where knowledge and skills
are the most important thing that's the

goal that you are after more than money
you want to develop knowledge and skills
and so this person asks "What would be
the three or so skills that are the most
essential moving forward in the 21st

century?" And you know it's not like
specific skills that I'm going to talk
about like coding or you know mastering
AI or going to some business strategy
because I think that's not really what

the spirit of the question is in general
there are certain kind of personal
skills that you want to develop okay so
number one and this is something that I
have in my book Mastery you must see

being social and getting along with
people and cooperating and knowing how
to work with people as a skill it's not
something you were born with it's not
something that some people are good bad

or bad at like anything it is a skill
that you develop being social and
knowing how to work with people and
knowing how to be sensitive to their
energy and in this skill what it is is

you're able to pay attention to people
and see who they are as an individual
and see what their particular needs are
what they're missing in life and you're
able to supply that you're able to enter

their spirit you don't offend them
unnecessarily you know how to work with
them right you know how to properly
criticize them if that's necessary
because if you don't understand that

being social is a skill if you don't
develop it you could be the greatest at
whatever you could do you could be even
the greatest athlete in the world but
you're going to be offending your

teammates you can be offending the
people that you work with and all of
your knowledge and your other skills are
going to be completely neutralized by
how bad you are in dealing with people

and so when you look at social as a
skill what that means is you have to be
spending time with people you got to get
out of your phone you got to get out of
your office you got to get out of all of

your virtuality you have to be around
people you have to interact more that's
the only way that you will become social
and if you find yourself you know alone
a lot and and I have found that

difficult you have to force yourself out
there you have to force yourself to go
to clubs to go to bars to hang out with
people so developing social skills is
incredibly important but it's not the

only thing right so another skill that's
extremely important and probably the
most important of all is to develop a
love of learning i know personally when
there's something that I don't know

there's something that I'm not good at
that I then take an effort to like learn
it to get better at it and I'm not going
to make say specifics it could be some
sports or it could be playing a musical

instrument or a game that process of
learning to me is so exciting it's like
I know it because when I was a child
getting better at something is a really
really exciting process so I will give

you an example years ago when I was
writing the war book I got myself a pool
table because I wanted something to take
my mind off the war book which is really
heavy and was like kind of driving me

crazy and I wanted something where I
could just do kind of feel the strategy
in the game itself and just kind of get
out of my head and at first I was really
bad at it but slowly I got better and

better i was practicing and I was
playing against myself you know which is
pretty easy and I would read books about
it and I would practice certain shots
and when I could make like a double bank

shot and things like that or put spin on
the ball I was so excited man this was
really great the feeling that you're
improving at something a lot of people
are turned off by learning and if you

don't find learning one of the most
exciting things in the world then I
think you're never going to develop the
whole game everything else will fall
apart but it has to be something that

excites you if you are somebody who's
interested in literature and you try and
learn algebra that could be interesting
you may enjoy the challenge but you
won't learn as much because you're not

really that interested in it right but
if you learn like a foreign language
like French where you can read the
literature you're so motivated that you
will learn and you will that natural

love that you have will come out the
other skill that you must develop so
just to reiterate is being social having
a love of learning the third one is kind
of related to the second one but it is

patience a lot of people nowadays are
really really impatient and the reason I
think is I mean I'm very I I have a lot
of impatience myself so I I can't preach
about that but the reason why I think

it's gotten worse is we're so used to
the power of our phones of our computers
that we think everything should be
happening quickly and instantly if we
have to wait 5 seconds to get a piece of

information on the internet we think "Oh
my god it's taking so long it's takes so
long to download." Whereas 20 30 years
ago you would have had to go to the
library you would have to spend an hour

to do it you learned how to develop
patience to find things but people are
so impatient because everything is so
quick and easy and powerful right now so
you want to be able to slow things down

you want to have the ability to say if
it's going to take me an hour to learn
this if I have to spend time practicing
something that's tedious I'm okay with
it i like the

slowness i actually embrace the pain
that's involved so learning anything
developing any skill involves pain when
I first got that pool table I was so bad
at it it was so frustrating and it

really made me kind of upset because I
like being really good at things right
but I played every day and I got better
and better and better and better and
then I remember one day I I mentioned

this before i was playing with 50 Cent
in his office and I beat him three times
in a row and he's a pretty good pool
player i felt "Wow man I've arrived."
But then I had a humbling experience a

few days later when I went to this pool
hall in Manhattan and I got creamed by
this other guy so you know put kind of
put it in perspective but I was getting
better at it i had to be patient because

at first I really sucked at it so
developing patience is absolutely
critical thing and related to that so
all these things are kind of related to
that is the ability to be bored right so

sometimes boredom is a good thing
sometimes being frustrated in in what
you're doing is okay because it forces
you it forces you to be patient and to
slow things down as well one other thing

I would say is and I had a a interview
about this is the ability the skill it
is a skill of managing your
anxiety so when you're starting
something out when you're trying to

build a business when you're trying to
write a book when you're trying to
create a movie you're going to feel a
lot of anxiety because it's not there
it's going to take a lot of work you're

looking a month for me years of work to
produce it and it makes you kind of
anxious and it makes you as I said
before impatient but being able to deal
with your anxiety and being able to

handle it and manage it and not get in a
hurry to get to the goals that you want
is very important those elements of
dealing with boredom dealing with
anxiety and impatience are all

interrelated they're the ability to slow
things down to deal with the micro
aspects of any kind of learning process
those are skills that I think are
absolutely essential for going forward

in the 21st century because what you
want the endgame of all this is because
you love learning because you've been
patient and you've developed skills and
you're good with people you will reach a

point where you have mastered a couple
of things right so it's not like you
want to go through life and just master
one thing you want to master two at
least two kind of real skills in the

world for me it was writing and research
and there were a few others but being
able to combine writing and research as
I had was what led to the 48 laws of
power so you reach a point where you

develop two two or three really basic
skills and then when you're 30 or or in
that vicinity you're able to combine
them and to create something a new kind
of business a new kind of enterprise and

because we live in an age where there's
so much information available and so
many skills you can learn even online
developing that I absolutely guarantee
that something brilliant will happen for

you but if you don't have the patience
and the love of learning then none of
this will ever matter so those are the
skills I think that are essential


==========================================================
Generated by youtranscripts.com - Free YouTube Transcript Tool
