so the one thing that I do want to
insist is that you have time if it's a
walk or with you're in a conversation
with someone where that's the time where
you really make a point of not using the

phone and even leaving it at home if you
can that's sort of the main distraction
that we all face but the other thing
that you want to build at the same time
is you want to build powers of focus and

meditation
how do you avoid the distractions that
this generation has to
face particularly social
media and whenever it comes to like

changing a habit or changing a pattern
of
behavior you want to aim for for real
change you don't want to like do
anything drastic so if you can go

completely cold turkey if you say "All
right I'm just going to completely cut
off social media," it'll be very
difficult for you particularly if you
spend several hours a day on it so you

have to aim a little bit small and take
kind of realistic steps so what I would
do it's almost like a math equation i
would say if I spend um two hours a day
on it I'm gonna begin the following day

and I'm gonna cut that down by like a
half hour and I and I'm gonna figure out
which platform I'm going to use less you
know it's okay to waste time i've said
that before but the kind of the ones

that don't make you feel very good that
you really feel like you're wasting your
time and I would cut those out first and
I would slowly slowly go at it and then
so you you've reduced it half an hour

then you slowly get it down to an hour
and then when you get it down to
something reasonable and you feel
comfortable and what I mean feel feeling
comfortable you don't feel that that

itch that habit god I got to grab it you
don't feel like you're depriving
yourself you reach a point where it
feels kind of good and you feel a little
bit liberated and then I would take a

day I would schedule like a day a week
where I would go cold turkey where I
would not have it with me at all and one
thing that I really really makes me
upset even pissed off is I take a bike

ride up into these hills nearby no cars
are allowed i hardly see any people it's
really wonderful then I'll come upon
somebody who's coming down the the same
road where there's just total silence

it's so beautiful and they're like talk
yammering on their phone or they're like
this and I want to slap them across the
face and say just put that damn thing
away for for a few seconds so the one

thing that I do want to insist is that
you have time if it's a walk or with
you're in a conversation with someone
where that's the time where you really
make a point of not using the phone and

even leaving it at home if you can okay
and so that's sort of the main
distraction that we all face but the
other thing that you want to build at
the same time is you want to build

powers of focus and meditation obviously
on many many occasions here I've
advocated meditating it's a really
helpful thing to help you overcome
distractions and help you focus but

there are other things you can do so
like when you're listening to music this
is something I'm writing about in the
chapter right now in my Sublime book
when you're listening to music sometimes

make it a form of meditation where you
absorb yourself completely in the sounds
for half an hour you actually live
listen deeply and you don't let your
thoughts constantly distract you or

you're reading a book you allows
yourself to get so deeply involved that
you kind of lose yourself in those
moments the opposite of the distractions
are feelings of flow when you're just

absolutely in the moment and it feels
wonderful and you're just flowing with
time you're flowing with the music
you're flowing with the book that you're
reading so here to sum it up I would say

as a math equation slowly reduce 15
minutes by till you get it down to an
hour something kind of comfortable then
try cold turkey do not use it when
you're on a walk or or doing exercise or

in a conversation and maybe one day a
week carve out a day where you don't use
it at all and if you can make it two
days a week great and then find other
forms where you can go deeply deep focus

meditation listening to music reading a
book where you're completely absorbed in
something i think those are realistic
and practical exercises that could
really help you