isolation is bad you're a social animal
you're meant to be around other people
but if you can't be alone you can't ever
figure out what makes you different and
What Makes You unique so you have to be

able to play both sides of the
[Music]
game I remember law I think it's law 18
I'm just having a look that isolation
yeah do not build fortresses to protect

yourself isolation is dangerous yeah so
solude is not a defense because it cuts
you off from valuable information allies
and opportunities there's a difference
isn't there between being lonely and

being
alone because being alone is one thing
but the state of
loneliness feels like it's a slightly
different

proposition well it's the difference
between you
feel very unhappy that you're you're not
connecting to other people we're a
social

animal right MH and you feel like people
don't like you they don't respect you
that you can't interact with them on a
level that's
meaningful whereas the feeling of being

alone for
me wow I don't have to be around ugly
idiotic people I can just be by myself I
can read a good book I don't have to
interact with people whose ideas I don't

like I can just be myself and be as
weird as I want wow what a relief I'm so
happy being alone now I'm not like that
all the time I would be Terri terrible
but sometimes I do feel that way and

that's the difference and that's a good
thing I I remember once I was on an
airplane and I saw a a young woman who
was by
herself and I could sense that it was

driving her crazy and she had to use her
phone to never feel alone right even in
the middle when we're flying over the
ocean she had to like somehow connect
onto the internet and be and be sending

emails and texts and anything and I got
this kind of desperation in her this
this intuition this
feeling that being alone was just
horrifying for her you know and um I

think that's not a good thing I think
that's a terrible thing so yes isolation
is bad you need to be NE you're a social
animal you're meant to be around other
people but if you can't be alone you

can't ever figure out what makes you
different and What Makes You unique so
you have to be able to play both sides
of the game to to listen to that voice
yeah inside to turn

inwards it is hard to turn inwards when
you never have moments of solitude I
guess when you were you said you were
suicidal in your earlier years yeah what
lifted you out of that state well I I

had a girlfriend who was very
understanding who helped me a lot so I
wasn't completely
alone um and then a little tiny voice
inside of me was saying you are you have

interesting thoughts
you're a strange person Robert I've
always been strange I never was like
other people in even in high school I
was always something off about me which

could be made me lonely which could make
me be a problem but I kept saying
there's something different and off
about you right and you have skills as a
writer it's going to happen someday

don't give up don't give up don't give
up keep trying right and so finally I'm
35 36 years old I was was in Italy at
the lowest point of my life and then I
met this man there who was a book

packager Yos
elfers and he asked me if I had an idea
for a
book and suddenly just I almost get
emotional just thinking about everything

just shifted inside of me it's like yeah
I could write a a non-fiction book and I
just improvised what would turn into the
48 Laws of Power he got so excited he
said I will pay you to write the the the

the uh I forget what the word is to sell
it you know and um and then I'll pay you
to live while you write it and so
suddenly it went from Darkness to to
light because I had a purpose and all of

my misery you know I could take all of
the Bad Bosses I had all of the horrible
psychotic bosses who were so stupid and
so political and so manipulative and I
could go wow I've got all this material

to write the 48 loss of power all my
worst experiences can go into this book
it all has purpose for it I'm not saying
that's going to happen to everybody but
I was literally at that moment before it

happened pretty much near Rock Bottom
and I asked my my wife what would have
happened if this didn't turn out would I
have committed suicide would I I I if
I'd gone the same path and gotten into H

done some H hack job I'd probably be
incredibly overweight and alcoholic and
I might have already died of a heart
attack or maybe I would have found my
way to something else but it was a

really really low point in my
life
purpose yeah it's crazy how it can lift
you out of Darkness it can turn the
lights on yeah it's just so unbelievably

hard to find for so many people I mean
you're not going to find it in your
bedroom necessarily sat there thinking
but you know
know opportunities

come you just have to be ready for them
so I had this opportunity that came to
me and you might say well that's lucky
that's never going to happen to me but
it will happen to you you're just not

ready for it you're just not recognizing
it some person will cross your path that
can lift you out of what you're doing
who could connect you but you're not
paying attention you're not ready for it

you don't think you deserve it so the
there is opportunity all all the every
day of the week you're you're it's
around you is what I'm trying to say
there's so many studies and there was

one on TV by I think it was Darren Brown
The Illusionist that show certain types
of people are pessimistic towards
opportunity and when you do studies
where you and there's one particular

study where they have a newspaper and
they give it to one group of people who
I think are pessimists and one group of
people that are optimists and the the
researchers say when you find the 100

voucher $100 voucher just come back to
us and what happens is they scroll
through the newspaper and the pessimists
never find it but on the first page of
the newspaper it says stop the stud stop

go to the researchers now you've won
$100 the optimists find it well and
Darren Brown did a similar thing The
Illusionist in the street where he put I
think it was a like A50 pound or a $100

note in the middle of the street as they
were walking down the street and the
optimists find it they see it but the
pessimist just walk right past it yeah I
think it was a winning scratch card

potentially and that really opened my
mind to like my my state my mental state
my psychology is determining whether I
see these opportunities yeah or totally
miss them and then it's almost a stward

spiral because then I'll think God I'm
such an unlucky person right without
realizing that I'm playing a really
important role in creating my own
fortune or Misfortune right yeah I have

a chapter in loss of human nature about
the nature of your attitude creates your
circumstances which is sort of the same
thing you're
saying which is there are two kinds of

attitudes that I talk about one is a
close an attitude that's closing that's
constrictive that's narrow and there's
one that's expansive and open you could
call that pessimistic and optimistic but

the closed um attitude is you're only
seeing life through this narrow little
Spectrum where everything is bad people
don't like you there's hostility all
around you and what that means is you're

not seeing reality you're creating
reality you're creating that real ity
you're seeing it and that's what happens
to you the expansive attitude is life is
amazing all these incredible things are

possible I have hope any moment there
could be an opportunity and that's not
reality either but you're going to
create that Reality by feeling that way
and taking seizing an opportunity the

the smallest crumb of an opportunity
you're going to create those good
circumstances so by your attitude you
create the bad things that happen to you
in life



==========================================================
Generated by youtranscripts.com - Free YouTube Transcript Tool
