you want to be finding things that kind
of waste time but that can have
something productive behind
[Music]
it so somebody asked how can you stop

wasting time if you're not living the
life that you want to well I would kind
of flip that question around and go the
answer is to live the life that you want
to and then you won't be wasting time so

wasting time there's a bit of a
prejudice against it wasting time in
some ways has a perp can have a purpose
behind it I frequently waste time in the
sense that I let my mind wander I read

things that really have nothing to do
with my work at that for that particular
day I happen to like sports a lot and
I'm reading about the inside things
going on in basketball or baseball such

things that basically are wasting time
you know but it's okay because a it
relaxes you and we need relax from all
the tension but B things sometimes
infiltrate your brain from these

somewhat irrelevant things that you
wasted your time and they actually
enrich your the soil and your thoughts
and they bring something they contribute
something but the point is I lead a life

where I do have a sense of purpose where
I do know what I'm what I'm supposed to
be doing so it's okay to waste time the
problem is when you're wasting time
don't know what your life is is about

and things that you're doing to waste
time cannot possibly enrich your brain
so what I would like you to think about
is you have you can't be on tense every
moment you do have to let your mind

wander but if you do it with certain
things they can actually benefit you in
some way so instead of wasting time with
online porn or video games or things
like that although sometimes video games

might have a positive impact I don't
know I don't play very many of them so I
don't know but you want to be finding
things that kind of waste time but that
can have something productive behind it

you know so you take up a game for
instance you play chess I once tried to
pick up the Asian game of Go which is
very difficult it's a real brain drain
for me because I was writing the war

book I bought a pool table and I try to
teach myself pool so you go you you play
pool you learn chess you learn back him
you learn
go this Asian game you take up an

activity like that where it's kind of
relaxing because you don't have to focus
on it you kind of waste time but also it
does something else to you so I bought a
pool table I'm not say a lot of people I

bought the cheapest pool table was only
$500 it was like from an old bar it had
like beer stains on it and it was the
kind that you put quarters in but it fit
in my garage um so it wasn't a fancy

pool table but I got this when I was
writing the war book because every
afternoon I would waste time playing
pool but it was a FOC it was focusing
and learning how to develop some skill

on that it took my mind away from my
book but it taught me some things about
strategy the other thing I learned about
myself in this wasting time was whenever
I would be brilliant at pool when I was

by myself but when someone would come
over and they wanted to play against me
and compete I wasn't very good I learned
that I don't handle pressure so well in
games sometimes anyway there can be

productive time wasters things where
you're developing some kind of skill and
it doesn't it's not so intense where you
don't feel like you're always focusing
so hard but it enriches your brain so I

would really recommend figuring those
kinds of things out the other thing is
to find out what your life is for to
figure out what your career path is and
then you can waste time doing whatever

you want you can play video games up the
Wazoo it's fine it's okay to do that
several hours a day you don't feel like
you're wasting your time what you feel
like is I'm relaxing my brain when I'm

finished I'm going to go back to my
studies of engineering of Science of
whatever it is because what happens the
depressing thing of wasting your time is
you waste your time and you go ah now

what am I going to do oh I guess I'm
going to watch this thing on tele Vision
now is you it starts becoming a habit
where you're wasting more and more time
but if you waste time in a in a

framework of I've got an hour I'm going
to just waste it I don't care what then
I get back to when I skill the things
I'm learning it doesn't feel so bad so
that's my advice to you
