Transcript Generated for Free by youtranscripts.com
==========================================================

Title: Being Social Is a Skill
==============================

Generated on: 6/14/2025, 3:28:28 PM

the main thing about developing this
skill though is very very
simple there's one step that you can do
that will immediately improve your
ability and that is your level of

Desire how do I improve my social skills
but first of all you have to realize the
importance of social skills 95% of your
life in involves interactions with
people that have a

tremendous impact on your emotions on
your well-being on your health right and
the thing is we don't think of being in
the world and being social and
interacting with people as a skill

unfortunately we think of it even if you
bring up this question you're probably
not taking it very seriously you think
of I'm just naturally it's something I
don't have to practice this I don't have

to learn anything about it I just go out
in the world and I interact and I do the
best that I can it's not like a skill
like learning a piano or playing chess
or shooting free throws or something

like that it's just being a human being
well no it is a skill it is something
you need to develop and where we spend
so much of our Lives now in a virtual
realm it's a skill that is being

degraded because it is a skill that
depends on spending time interacting
with people so if you wanted to be a
really good basketball player you
wouldn't sit there on your phone

watching YouTube videos of the late Kobe
Bryant doing all the stuff because it
wouldn't lead to anything get out of
your goddamn house and shoot hoops day
and night spending all your time on the

stupid phone isn't going to develop
social skills you have to go out to bars
if you want to meet a man or a woman you
have to go mingled you have to go out
and interact with people more and more

and more get out of the virtuality so
the most important thing is to realize
it is a skill and is a skill that will
make your life so much easier because in
your personal life you'll be able to

have a relationship that will be
enriching that won't be full of all this
arguing Etc you'll know how to choose
the right partner and you will know how
to interact with them on a meaningful

level B in your work world you will be
having all these clashes and antagonisms
taking it home with you and going God
why that person say that Etc ET C you be
able to let go of all the drama and

release it it'll free your mind up so
you want that skill the main thing about
developing this skill though is very
very
simple there's one step that you can do

that will immediately improve your
ability and that is your level of
desire and what I mean by that is the
following when you're interacting with
someone in a cafe a bar or at work or in

in your home you're normally half
listening a third listening even a
quarter l or less you're looking at your
phone you're thinking about your own
problems you're thinking about things in

the past or something they say triggers
the thought and you're thinking about
something that happened to you you you
you you you why the reason is you're
more interested in yourself than you are

in other people people you're more
interested in your own problems in your
own ideas in your own experiences than
those of others it's an important axume
to understand with humans is that we're

drawn to things that are pleasurable and
we get away from things that are painful
so if we think of ourselves and our our
own ego and our own experiences as fun
as pleasurable because we're a

narcissist and we all are narcissist
then you're never ever going to be
paying attention to other people what I
want you to think of is to reverse that
into go being absorbed in your own

thoughts your own experiences and your
own ideas is actually very boring and
very repetitive and very painful it's
the same thing day after day after day
the same problems the same compulsions

the same worries the same anxieties I
say to people would you like to travel
to a foreign country in which everything
looks like the neighborhood that you
live in no you want to get get out of

yourself so pain is being self-absorbed
pleasure is other people their stories
their experiences their lives so if
tomorrow you go to the supermarket and
you're you're at the meat counter you

know something i' I've thought about and
I've done instead of thinking about my
own life and absorb my I'm going to
focus on the person serving me and I'm
going to try and think of what their

life is like and what their story might
be
what their family might be where they
might have come from and I might even
talk to them a little bit about this

because I'm interested in it people are
weird they're like a movie they have
fantasies they have dreams they have
experiences that are not like yours if
you are interested in them the whole

game will change you will find yourself
wanting more of these
interactions when you meet somebody at a
cafe you won't be in your phone won't be
wasting your time like that you won't be

thinking about your own problems you be
going I want to know what this person
their story is like I want to know what
their childhood was like I want to know
what it is to be them I want to know

what it feels like to be them if you
become that person that is interested in
others that talks to them in that way
that
goes with the thought what is it like to

be you people will be Charmed by you
they will love it they'll have a very
powerful seductive impact B it will
teach you incredible things things about
people and see it will develop this

muscle and this skill in you which
you'll be able to practice it all of the
time and you will have tremendous social
success so it's your self-absorption
that is the great impediment to your

level of social skills I could talk
until my my face turns blue about the
importance of not being so self-absorbed
the key is to find other people more
interesting than yourself however you

can do that that will unlock the secret
to having higher level of social skill


==========================================================
Generated by youtranscripts.com - Free YouTube Transcript Tool
